# Motivation
## Left Handed Gaming Options
As a lefty I use IJLK instead of WASD for gaming. There are more buttons for the pinky on right side of the keyboard. As I used them more and more I started to get a strain injury in my forearm. Instead of doing the sensible thing of remapping keys to use my pinky less. I stared at the space bar in disgust. I use my thumb a lot when I use a controller, why not when on a keyboard? The original idea was not to make a keyboard, but instead a gaming a device that had enough keys for one had to reach without moving. Somthing like the 'Razer Nostromo,' with no stick and more buttons.
## Programmer
As I started to lay out the design it occurred to me it would be simple enough to mirror what I what I had to make a keyboard. I'd only put the keys I used and lop off the number pad to make it nice and compact. Since I'm going for a "don't move your hand" approach for gaming why not for programming/typing as well. I use VIM or a VIM plug in for most all work, but that doesn't always exist. Since I'll be using my thumb more for gaming, why not when typing as well?
## Learning How
After I had a layout I liked I started to search around for tutorials. That's when I ran across the 'ErgoDox.' An ergnomical keybaord that had the same why-is-the-space-bar-so-big inspiration. As I already had the itch to do it myself I decided it would be best just to make my own. I've not really played with Arduinos and this seems like a great excuse. The project is both useful and educational!
## 3D Printer
I own a 3D printer. This helps justify my purchase...as if I needed to...
## This Document
It was not on my radar to create this document when I started. I wanted to make every aspect of my keyboard; key layout, case, wire it, and program it. There is a lot of good info on how to do the first three, but I was having trouble finding a good guide on how to program a keyboard. Everything I found pointed to, [tmk_keyboard](https://github.com/tmk/tmk_keyboard). A great resource, and if you don't want to write your own firmware I suggest using it. It was not for me though. So I was left to bashing my head and reading forums about teensyduino. So after all I went through I thought I'd write something for the next guy or gal. So if you are looking write your own keyboard firmware, then this doc was made for you. I hope it helps.
